*The Project*

I installed a generative video projection on the first floor of AKW near the entrance to AKW100, where students would see it and
interact with it as they went to and from class. The video shows a human marionette-like figure slowly spinning and over time breaking
apart and then reassembling in unsettling and inhuman configurations. On the bottom of the projection were emblazoned the words "Welcome
to the black box. Enjoy your visit."

*The Concept*

Site specific installation is a singular type of gesture in the scheme of art historical developments over the past decades. In the 60's-70's
it was intimately tied to a movement frankly named Institutional Critique. With this in the front of my mind when we learned that we would
be taking over the Computer Science building, I decided that I wanted to make a work with a reason for being in that building, which would
purposefully address its space. As such, my artwork sets out to reflect on the intersection of human and computer and perhaps instill some
unsettling and uncanny energy where normally nonchalant non-focus reigns. I hoped to highlight how the computer tools we use are intimately
tied to our own bodies, having been invented to augment them and out of understandings of form and function rooted in them, while being
fundamentally at odds with what should be considered "human": Computers lack softness. A generated graphic of a human form need not be
disturbed when its limbs are removed. Focusing specifically on the human body and the distortions of it I hoped would summon the
uncannyness to demand of my viewer a reassessment of where attention need be directed as computers are trusted to assume greater and
greater responsibility in our lives.

*The System*

The core of the project was the mesh system our group installed around the entrance to the building. Included in this were the following
sensors:
- Outside, above the front door, a climate sensing setup including a temperature and humidity sensor and a Piezoelectric unit to receive
- vibrations from the wind.
- A reed-sensor attached to each of the two front doors to detect when they open and close.
- A sliding potentiometer inviting manual activation by passerbys, installed on the wall outside of AKW100.

Each sensor was connected to an ESP32 that broadcast its data as a node on a shared mesh network. We included one extra ESP to function
just as a "listener", who funneled all messages over the network out through a serial connection. Each of our group members took turns
connecting to that ESP to parse the data stream as needed to run our visualizations or sonifications.

My video was generated by a Processing script which ran on my laptop, taking the serial info as variable inputs changing color, speed,
background motion and rotation parameters. It was projected onto the wall outside of AKW100.

*The Code*

The Processing script I wrote actually presented a number of challenges. I wanted to hierarchically define a model of a human, such that
if the shoulder moved, the rest of the arm would follow it. This meant a relatively complex set of instructions, especially since
Processing doesn't save shapes as variables that can be returned to, requiring rather that any rotations be applied as a transformation
on the coordinate system as a whole to affect every primitive drawn thereafter in the draw loop. Rotations are also always around the
origin, such that spinning any individual body part in my program required identifying a pivot point, translating the origin of the
coordinate system to that point and then rotating the desired amount, drawing that shape and finally undoing the previous
transformations before drawing the next body part. The real complication arose from the fact that depending on what's causing the
rotation of a body part, its own movement or that of a parented part, the pivot point would differ (e.g. is the lower arm spinning
around the elbow or being dragged along with the upper arm on a rotation around the shoulder?). The structure I imposed to solve this
problem resulted at first unintentionally in the fragmentation of the body in the animation as pivot points are switched and body parts
jump back to initial relative positions when moving after a parent part has moved. Quickly after discovering this bug, I decided that
I actually liked it and the progressively increasing dismemberment it causes, and it became a central component of the functioning of
my piece.

